Title: Quick way to put desktop apps online
Date: 2009-01-25 01:02
Tags: web 2.0
Slug: quick-way-to-put-desktop-apps-online

I do not know if my idea have already been used somewhere. Anyway I
would share the idea here to see if it can inspire anybody.

Nowadays destop apps and web-based softwares (or SaaS or anything
similar) are emerging. Google works hard to let its [docs][], [reader][]
to work offline. Many innovative web-based apps are coming, like
[Aviary, the web-based design tools][]. And there are desktop version of
[Twitter][], [eBay][], [Flickr][]. Netbooks are targeted to serf the
net, which is making use of SaaS to compensate netbooks' low computing
power. And there areÂ  already people asking for a web-based OS.

But it is hard to put all the things in the cloud, at least it needs a
lot of money to get that storage to store all your music and video...
And the pivate stuff, transferring through the Internet is already
taking risk. So how to make them avalible to you anywhere like SaaS?

The answer is a web interface of a software. It isn't a new thing since
[VLC Player][], [eMule][], [Winamp][](slightly different approach) and
possibly more softwares already have this function. The software itself
has a build-in web server, that make you access the service from
anywhere by typing the computer's ip address. And yup, it is like telnet
that let you control the computer and the files, but even more like
remote desktop that give you a better interface, and with less bandwidth
dependency.

My idea is one step forward, not only to provide a web interface but
also a web service, like some REST API. This can let developer make
their own web interface and host the interface elsewhere, further reduce
bandwidth dependency. It can also let developers make some mash up,
which is now between the desktop and the Internet but not only the
Internet itself.

What we developer should do is to remember to provide such Internet
accessible API when developing desktop software. And it is even better
to draft a stanard for other developers.

  [docs]: http://docs.google.com
  [reader]: http://www.google.com/reader
  [Aviary, the web-based design tools]: http://aviary.com/
  [Twitter]: http://twitter.com
  [eBay]: http://www.ebay.com/
  [Flickr]: http://www.flickr.com/
  [VLC Player]: http://www.videolan.org/vlc/
  [eMule]: http://www.emule-project.net/
  [Winamp]: http://www.winamp.com/
