Title: Brief idea of the project
Date: 2009-07-23 18:43
Category: FYP
Tags: installation
Slug: brief-idea-of-the-project

My FYP will be a research on a new technique of augmented reality using
a one-way mirror. With the help of real-time 3D motion tracking of the
viewer, 3D content can be projected on the mirror in the right
perspective achieving a augmented reality. In this case, the user can
interact with the virtual 3D content in a very intuitive way.

With a one-way mirror, which the reflective side is facing viewers, the
back side is attached a thin projection surface. The projection is from
the back side of the mirror. Since the reflective side of the one-way
mirror is a bit transparent, the light from the projection surface will
be able to pass through the mirror and seen by the viewers.

To make the 3D content correctly placed in the viewer's perspective,
real-time 3D motion tracking is used to detect the viewer's eye
position. The data is then pass to the computer with responsible for
generating 3D content. The body position data is also used to implement
interaction between the viewer and the virtual 3D content.  
The 3D tracking will be done by placing two or more web-cam at the back
side of the mirror. The image is sent to the computer. A 3D
reconstruction with the images from the cameras and all 3D properties of
the viewer will be collected.

With the developed technique in this research, a interactive
installation will be made. The title of the installation will be
"Mind-body interaction".  
It is a large problem in Philosophy that whether there are any
interaction between mind and body of a human. If there is, in what form
the interaction is taking place. There is several different ideas toward
this topic: substance dualism, property dualism, idealism, materialism
etc. The installation is trying to introduce a artistic, new way of
mind-body interaction which let viewers to think of this Philosophy
question through experience.  
While the set-up will be nearly the same as what is described above,
the added 3D content in the mirror will be some abstract lighting and
visual effect generated by the viewer's brainwave. The visualized
brainwave and the reflected body of the viewer are corresponding to the
mind and body of the viewer. And the viewer is allowed to manipulate or
affect the 3D content in the mirror, a mind-body interaction is achieved
in a symbolic way.  
For getting the brainwave of the viewer, a brainwave sensor which is
wore on the viewer's head is used. (The sensor will be bought from the
Internet.)
