Title: Some AR/mirror related projects
Date: 2009-08-06 01:57
Category: FYP
Slug: some-ar-mirror-related-projects

I searched over the Internet and found a few installation projects
related to AR/mirror. Thankfully there are no project same as my FYP
topic, but the similarity and difference is very useful for me to direct
my FYP.

### Brainmirror

[![Brainmirror][]][]Website: <http://www.brainmirror.se/>

This is the most similar project I found. The project is a installation
art which projecting brains on the mirror. The brain is placed on the
viewer's head which is motion-tracked with the help of a special hamlet.
Visitors can see the cross-section of the brains by moving their head
towards an imaginary vertical plane.

The installation's visual outcome is very close to what I what to
achieve, but I am aiming more abstract thing than human brain. My
version can be more interactive with the use of hands and whole body
movement while Brainmirror fixed the virtual object (the brain) on the
head position (it simplified the perspective problem but limiting
visitors' interaction which I do not want).

### Miragraphy

[![0719a\_1][]][]Web page:
<http://www.hitachi.co.jp/New/cnews/month/2005/07/0719a.html>

This project is a product by Japanese. It also use back-projection
technique to project virtual objects on the mirror to form a mixed
reality.It can provides information of clothes and let visitors
virtually try the clothes.

For the technical side of this project, the tracking and virtual objects
is just 2D. It means there is no rotation-y and rotation-x for the
virtual objects. I think the technique used in this project is not well
developed resulting reduced experience. For the artistic side, the
product is fully targeted at consumer application but not an artwork
which I feel quite disappointed with the visual effects.

### Interactive Mirror

[![Interactive Mirror][]][]Web page:
<http://blog.litstudios.com/index.php?/archives/14-Interactive-Mirror.html>

It is again projecting things on mirror, but the interaction is by
direct touching on the mirror(multi-touch) without any motion tracking.
The system created in the project is then used in showroom and other
product promotion events.

The visual effect is very beautiful which is similar to what I want.
What I want more is to bring the interaction into 3D but not limited in
the mirror surface.

  [Brainmirror]: /files/2009/modes_mri_brain_slice.jpg
    "Brainmirror"
  [![Brainmirror][]]: /files/2009/modes_mri_brain_slice.jpg
  [0719a\_1]: /files/2009/0719a_1.jpg
    "Miragraphy"
  [![0719a\_1][]]: /files/2009/0719a_1.jpg
  [Interactive Mirror]: /files/2009/mirrorstill1.jpg
    "Interactive Mirror"
  [![Interactive Mirror][]]: /files/2009/mirrorstill1.jpg
